# Entry 2
##### 11/10/25
## Content 
Forensic science can be known for many things such as the job that helps arrest many criminals, and unfolds mysteries and cases that other jobs aren't able to do. There are many reasons why forensic scientists are so great at what they do and one of which is **Technology**. Throughout my 2 months of researching technologies, my searches where many things such as **The technologies within Forensic science**. After looking at many sites I saw many sites had in common specific technology tool called the PCR also known as 
**The polymerase chain reaction**. In order to limit my searches to just the The polymerase chain reactor I searched up **The polymerase chain reaction use in forensic science** where it led me to [PCR in Forensic Science: A Critical Review](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11049589/) in where they demonstrate how they profile DNA. Another technological device that I saw many times in my search of **The technologies within Forensic science** was the **Phenom SEM**. In order to again have a more limited search to where it purely focuses on the Phenom SEM was **The phenom SEM use in forensic science** where the website [Forensic Applications of the Phenom Desktop Scanning Electron Microscope](https://www.azonano.com/article.aspx?ArticleID=3801) informed me that this technology was used for to analyse samples left at a crime scene. In order to be able to find these searches I had to specifically type the technologies name, and the use so that it can narrow my search to the best possible website.
## Engineering Design Process 
I am currently in the next stage of the engineering design process, where the goal is reasearching technologies use and how they solve problems within forensic science. Many crime scenes have DNA evidence that can be used to find the suspect. The problem is that DNA is microscopic and requires technology that can deeply inspect and analyse these DNA samples. 2 Technologies which solved these problems are the **Phenom SEM** and **The polymerase chain reaction**. These technologies help forensic scientists trace samples contain very small amounts of degraded DNA associated with inhibitory compounds and ions, and also provides useful images up to 45,000x magnification with high depth of focus. These technologies are for the most part easy to use and have helped many murders, robberies and cases be solved. My next step will be searching a problem and creating my own technological machine that can solve problems just like the **Phenom SEM** and **Polymerase chain reaction** do. My plan is to read more articles on problems the FOrensic science compartment still has and will speak to teachers, and peers on potential ideas and solutions I may be able to design.
## Skills
#### Attention to detail 
Working on this **Forensic Science** project and being in the research stage has strengthened my attention to detail because I have to be precise with my research and analyze scientific information in order to understand the problems there are and how technology work in order to solve these problems. In the forensic science field it is crucial to pay attention to every detail because small mistakes can alter cases, and similarly I have to precisely I have to understand what technologies such as the **Phenom SEM** and **Polymerase chain reaction** do and work. By paying attention to detail I have been able to learn how FOrensic scientists have to pay attention to every small details, and through my research I have been devloping learning and understanding on these technologies.
#### Logical reasoning
This Forensic Science project has helped me develop the skill of **logical reasoning** because I had to critically step by step think about how these technologies work to solve these problems. In addition to this I have to logically search stuff in order to arrive to the search destination I want. I had to learn how **Phenom SEM** and **Polymerase chain reaction** work and why they are among the most used technologies Forensic scientists use to solve cases. For example in order for DNA to be useful for scientists they have to collect then deeply analyze in order for DNA to be the key factor to solving the problem. This requires for me to connect many ideas, brainstorm solutions and analyse my own information.
#### How to google
My skill of **How to google** has deeply developed through my research of Forensic science problems and technological solutions because of many reasons. Specifically in the **Content** base where at first many of my searches were broad and led to a variety of diffirent technologies which can get confusing and frustrating when I need a specific technology. I used to google **The technologies within Forensic science** where it led to many diffirent technologies that solve problems but after doing research I narrowed my search down to just a couple website where I had to google **The polymerase chain reaction** in order to learn specifically on this topic. Overall I have learned how to google like never before as I now know how to navigate better, how to narrow my searches and specifically find useful websites.
## Summary
In conclusion this project has helped me develop as a person, and my research has helped me deeply learn new skills, problems and solutions to the point I am able to do small things such as navigate the internet better and nig things such as how a **polymerase chain reaction** works. I have also been developed socially because I can work with others in similar fields as me and learn how they were able to come up with solution to their problems.



[Home](../README.md)
